##🐧 Day 2 - Advanced Linux Commands

##🎯 Objective
Learn advanced Linux commands to retrieve system information, download files from the internet, search text inside files, use pipes, view file contents, and check command history.

##📘 Topics Learned

System Information Commands
uname – Displays the operating system name.
uname -a – Displays complete system information.
uname -r – Displays the Linux kernel version.
uname -m – Displays the machine architecture.
uname -n – Displays the system hostname.

Web & Networking Commands
wget – Downloads files from the internet.
curl – Retrieves data from a website or server.

Text Searching
grep – Searches for a word inside a file.
grep -i – Ignores uppercase and lowercase while searching.
grep -n – Displays matching lines with line numbers.

Pipe Operator
| (Pipe) – Sends the output of one command as the input to another command.
Example: cat file.txt | grep Linux

Viewing File Contents
head – Displays the first 10 lines of a file.
head -2 – Displays the first 2 lines.
tail – Displays the last 10 lines.
tail -3 – Displays the last 3 lines.

History Commands
history – Displays previously executed commands.
clear – Clears the terminal screen.

##💻 Commands Practiced
uname - Displays the operating system name.
uname -a - Displays complete system information.
uname -r - Displays the Linux kernel version.
uname -m - Displays machine architecture.
uname -n - Displays the hostname.
wget - Downloads a file from the internet.
curl - Retrieves webpage content.
grep - Searches for a word inside a file.
grep -i - Searches without case sensitivity.
grep -n - Displays matching lines with line numbers.
Pipe ( | ) Combines two commands.
head - Displays the first 10 lines.
head -2 - Displays the first 2 lines.
tail - Displays the last 10 lines.
tail -3 - Displays the last 3 lines.
history - Displays previously executed commands.
clear - Clears the terminal screen.

##✅ What I Practiced
-Checked Linux system information using uname.
-Viewed the current user using whoami.
-Checked system uptime using uptime.
-Downloaded files using wget.
-Retrieved webpage content using curl.
-Searched text using grep.
-Combined commands using the pipe (|) operator.
-Viewed the beginning and end of files using head and tail.
-Checked previously executed commands using history.
-Cleared the terminal using clear.

##❌ Mistakes I Made
-Typed uname-r instead of uname -r and learned that command options require a space.
-Misspelled a filename while using cat, resulting in a No such file or directory error.
-Entered the wrong search keyword in grep and corrected the spelling.
-Accidentally typed weget instead of wget and corrected the command.

##💡 Key Learnings
-Learned how to retrieve Linux system information.
-Understood the difference between wget and curl.
-Learned to search text efficiently using grep.
-Understood how pipes (|) connect multiple commands.
-Learned to view specific parts of a file using head and tail.
-Used history to review previously executed commands.

##📸 Outputs































